DEVDOCS-2037: GraphQL Overview (#619)
bigcommerce/dev-docs: docs/api-docs/storefront/graphql/graphql-api-overview.md

> ### On this Page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### On this page

```

- [Accessing the GraphQL Playground](#accessing-the-graphql-playground)
- [Using the GraphQL Playground](#using-the-graphql-playground)
- [Authentication](#authentication)
- [Querying within a BigCommerce storefront](#querying-within-a-bigcommerce-storefront)
- [Querying from external systems](#querying-from-external-systems)
- [Pagination](#pagination)
- [Complexity limits](#complexity-limits)
- [Resources](#resources)

</div>

BigCommerce's GraphQL Storefront API makes it possible to query storefront data from within a [Stencil](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/stencil-docs/getting-started/about-stencil) theme or remote site. This means information previously only available on the back-end via [Stencil's template logic](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/stencil-docs/reference-docs/global-objects-and-properties) can now be accessed via front-end JavaScript. For example, with the Storefront API, it is possible to do the following:

* Access product options, variations, and custom fields for any product from any page.
* Request any product's images at any resolution.
* Ask for customer details such as name, email address, and attributes (if logged in).

> * Look up objects (e.g. categories or brands) by URL, and fetch their details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Look up objects, such as categories or brands, by URL and fetch their details.

```

> * Build front-end applications on top of a BigCommerce [Stencil](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/stencil-docs/getting-started/about-stencil) theme or on a remote site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Build front-end applications on top of a BigCommerce's [Stencil](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/stencil-docs/getting-started/about-stencil) theme or on a remote site.

```

<a id="see-it-in-action" class="devdocsAnchor"></a>

## See it in action

To see the GraphQL Storefront API in action, checkout the [Bootstrap + Vanilla JS Storefront API Example](https://bigcommerce.github.io/storefront-api-examples/html-bootstrap-vanillajs/) hosted on GitHub. This example shows how a static HTML site can be used to render dynamic product information via the GraphQL Storefront API.

> Open the link and click submit with the sample data in the form. To see the example page with your store's data, [create a Storefront API Token](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-reference/storefront/graphql-api-tokens/api-token/createtoken) against your store and paste the token into the example form (be sure to create a token valid for this origin: `https://bigcommerce.github.io`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the link and click submit with the sample data in the form. To see the example page with your store's data, [create a Storefront API Token](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-reference/storefront/graphql-api-tokens/api-token/createtoken) against your store and paste the token into the example form. Be sure to create a token valid for this origin: `https://bigcommerce.github.io`.

```

For a full list of examples, see the [Storefront API Examples repo](https://github.com/bigcommerce/storefront-api-examples).

## Accessing the GraphQL Playground

> To access the GraphQL Storefront API Playground and documentation [login to your store](https://login.bigcommerce.com/deep-links/manage), then navigate to **Advanced Settings** > **Storefront API Playground**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access the GraphQL Storefront API Playground and documentation, [log into your store](https://login.bigcommerce.com/deep-links/manage), then navigate to **Advanced Settings** > **Storefront API Playground**

```

### Note

> * GraphQL Playground is a GraphQL IDE built on Electron. For more information, see [GraphQL Playground](https://electronjs.org/apps/graphql-playground) on [electrongjs.org](https://electronjs.org)
> * If the **Storefront API Playground** link is not visible, the store may not be using a Stencil theme. Apply a Stencil theme to use the Storefront GraphQL API.

</div>
</div>
</div>

## Using the GraphQL Playground

> To use the request runner, input queries on the left side and then click the play button. Query results will be displayed on the the right side.

Reviewer: Put UI element in bold.
```suggestion
To use the request runner, input queries on the left side and then click the **play** button. Query results will be displayed on the the right side.

```

![GraphQL Playground Query](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bigcommerce/dev-docs/master/assets/images/graphql-storefront-api-playground2.png "GraphQL Playground Query")

> Below is an sample query to get you started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is a sample query to get you started.

```

### Note

> * GraphQL Playground is a GraphQL IDE built on Electron. For more information, see [GraphQL Playground](https://electronjs.org/apps/graphql-playground) on [electrongjs.org](https://electronjs.org)
> * If the **Storefront API Playground** link is not visible, the store may not be using a Stencil theme. Apply a Stencil theme to use the Storefront GraphQL API.

</div>
</div>
</div>

## Using the GraphQL Playground

> To use the request runner, input queries on the left side and then click the **play** button. Query results will be displayed on the the right side.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the request runner, input queries on the left side and then click the **Play** button. Query results will be displayed on the right side.

```

}
```

> To explore the storefront GraphQL schema, checkout the docs and schema tabs on the right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To explore the storefront GraphQL schema, checkout the **docs** and **schema** tabs on the right.

```

![GraphQL Playground Docs](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bigcommerce/dev-docs/master/assets/images/graphql-playground-docs.png "GraphQL Playground Docs")

## Authentication

> GraphQL Storefront API requests are authenticated with tokens sent via the HTTP `Authorization` header

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GraphQL Storefront API requests are authenticated with tokens sent via the HTTP `Authorization` header.

```

}
```

> To explore the storefront GraphQL schema, checkout the **docs** and **schema** tabs on the right.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To explore the storefront GraphQL schema, checkout the **Docs** and **Schema** tabs on the right.

```

}
```

> ### Authenticating with an auto-generated Stencil Token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Authenticating with an auto-generated Stencil token

```

</script>
```

<div class="HubBlock--callout">
<div class="CalloutBlock--warning">
<div class="HubBlock-content">
<!-- theme: warning -->

### Note
> * `1` can be passed in for the `channel_id` for generating tokens for use on the default Stencil storefront.

> > * To create a channel for a remote site, see [Create Channel].(https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-reference/cart-checkout/channels-listings-api/channels/createchannel) in the API Reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> * To create a channel for a remote site, see [Create Channel](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-reference/cart-checkout/channels-listings-api/channels/createchannel) in the API Reference.

```

</div>
</div>

### Customer impersonation tokens

> It's also possible to generate tokens for use in server-to-server interactions with a trusted consumer by sending a `POST` to the [`/v3/storefront/api-token-customer-impersonation`](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-reference/storefront/graphql-api-tokens/customer-impersonation-token/createtokenwithcustomerimpersonation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's also possible to generate tokens for use in server-to-server interactions with a trusted consumer by sending a `POST` request to [`/v3/storefront/api-token-customer-impersonation`](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-reference/storefront/graphql-api-tokens/customer-impersonation-token/createtokenwithcustomerimpersonation).

```

}
```

> Customer impersonation token authenticated requests made to the GraphQL API receive store information from the perspective of the customer corresponding to the customer ID specified in the `X-Bc-Customer-Id` header sent with the GraphQL POST request. Pricing, product availability, customer account, and customer details will be reflected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customer impersonation token authenticated requests made to the GraphQL API receive store information from the perspective of the customer corresponding to the customer ID specified in the `X-Bc-Customer-Id` header sent with the GraphQL `POST` request. Pricing, product availability, customer account, and customer details will be reflected.

```

> Customer impersonation tokens should **never** be exposed publicly (e.g. to JavaScript or HTML), and should not be used for front-end requests. Unlike normal GraphQL Storefront API tokens, they are sensitive and should be treated like secrets, just as you might treat an OAuth token for BigCommerce's administrative APIs. Attempts to run requests using these tokens from a web browser will be rejected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customer impersonation tokens should **never** be exposed publicly, for example, to JavaScript or HTML, and should not be used for front-end requests. Unlike normal GraphQL Storefront API tokens, they are sensitive and should be treated like secrets, just as you might treat an OAuth token for BigCommerce's administrative APIs. Attempts to run requests using these tokens from a web browser will be rejected.

```

Consider this sample request using a Customer Impersonation token to run a request in the context of customer ID `123`.

```
curl 'https://store.com/graphql' -H 'Authorization: Bearer TOKEN_GOES_HERE' -H 'X-Bc-Customer-Id: 123' --data-binary '{"query":"query CustomerInformation {\n  customer {\n    firstName\n    lastName\n    email\n  }\n}"}'
```

### Customer login

> If you're using the Storefront API from a browser (for example, on top of your Stencil storefront) you can use the new Customer Login mutation to log in a customer account with an email address and password (for server-side integrations, consider a customer impersonation token instead). This will set a session cookie in the browser which will authenticate the customer account on future requests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using the Storefront API from a browser, for example, on top of your Stencil storefront, you can use the new Customer Login mutation to log in a customer account with an email address and a password. (For server-side integrations, consider a customer impersonation token instead.) This will set a session cookie in the browser which will authenticate the customer account on future requests:

```

}
```

Customer impersonation token authenticated requests made to the GraphQL API receive store information from the perspective of the customer corresponding to the customer ID specified in the `X-Bc-Customer-Id` header sent with the GraphQL `POST` request. Pricing, product availability, customer account, and customer details will be reflected.

> Customer impersonation tokens should **never** be exposed publicly, for example, to JavaScript or HTML, and should not be used for front-end requests. Unlike normal GraphQL Storefront API tokens, they are sensitive and should be treated like secrets, just as you might treat an OAuth token for BigCommerce's administrative APIs. Attempts to run requests using these tokens from a web browser will be rejected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Customer impersonation tokens should **never** be exposed publicly, for example, to JavaScript or HTML. These tokens should not be used for frontend requests. 

Unlike normal GraphQL Storefront API tokens, they are sensitive and should be treated like secrets, just as you might treat an OAuth token for BigCommerce's administrative APIs. Attempts to run requests using these tokens from a web browser will be rejected.

```
[Dev Docs Style Guide](https://intranet.bigcommerce.com/display/SST/Style+Guide+Word+List#StyleGuideWordList-F)

Consider this sample request using a Customer Impersonation token to run a request in the context of customer ID `123`.

```
curl 'https://store.com/graphql' -H 'Authorization: Bearer TOKEN_GOES_HERE' -H 'X-Bc-Customer-Id: 123' --data-binary '{"query":"query CustomerInformation {\n  customer {\n    firstName\n    lastName\n    email\n  }\n}"}'
```

### Customer login

> If you're using the Storefront API from a browser, for example, on top of your Stencil storefront, you can use the new Customer Login mutation to log in a customer account with an email address and a password. (For server-side integrations, consider a customer impersonation token instead.) This will set a session cookie in the browser which will authenticate the customer account on future requests:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're using the Storefront API from a browser, for example, on top of your Stencil storefront, you can use the new Customer Login mutation to log in a customer account with an email address and a password. For server-side integrations, consider a customer impersonation token instead. This will set a session cookie in the browser which will authenticate the customer account on future requests:

```

</div>
</div>

## Querying from external systems

If you wish to use the GraphQL Storefront API from an external system, there are a few considerations.

- Which Channel do you wish to run requests in the context of?

> - Are you running requests from a server or a frontend application/browser?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Are you running requests from a server or a front-end application/browser?

```

> - If you are running requests from a frontend application, do you need to show customer-specific information or only anonymous information?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you are running requests from a front-end application, do you need to show customer-specific information or only anonymous information?

```

</div>
</div>

## Querying from external systems

If you wish to use the GraphQL Storefront API from an external system, there are a few considerations.

- Which Channel do you wish to run requests in the context of?

> - Are you running requests from a server or a front-end application/browser?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Are you running requests from a server or a frontend application/browser?

```

> - If you are running requests from a front-end application, do you need to show customer-specific information or only anonymous information?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you are running requests from a frontend application, do you need to show customer-specific information or only anonymous information?

```

You can run this query against an example storefront using the [GraphQL Playground](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/graphql-playground?tabs=firstThreeProducts)

> The results will look something like this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The results will look something like this:

```

      // ...
```

In general, to reduce complexity, reduce the number of objects requested. For example, do the following:

> * Limit collections to a smaller page size (for example `first:10` instead of `first:50`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Limit collections to a smaller page size (for example, `first:10` instead of `first:50`).

```
